[READY FOR REVIEW] Adding accessibility policy draft (accessibility.md) and practices (#3581)
the-turing-way/the-turing-way: book/website/community-handbook/accessibility/accessibility-comms-platforms.md

(ch-accessibility-comms-platforms)=
# Access-centered support on Communication Platforms

_The Turing Way_ uses a variety of platforms for communication (for example, social media platforms like X/Twitter, Linkedin, Mastodon) and collaboration (for example, Github, HackMD, Etherpad).
This chapter describes the access and inclusion-related support we provide on our communication platforms, as well as support we hope to provide in the future.
We encourage our community to practice kindness in communicating with others and to be aware of cultural, linguistic, disability and personal differences, including the potential digital divide (in terms of unequal access to, use or impact of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT)) that may affect the way people communicate online.
On every platform our community uses to communicate or collaborate, we aim to enable access in a broader sense as defined by our Accessibility Policy.

## Access and inclusion-related support we provide on communication platforms

We aim to provide the following support and normalise the following practices within our community:

> - **Adding alt text to images**: We use alt text or "alternative text" to describe images, diagrams, or other visuals within _The Turing Way_. To learn more about how to write and use alt text for your work, please use this {ref}`guidance<ch-accessibility-alttext>`.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Adding alt text to images**: We use alt text or "alternative text" to describe images, diagrams, or other visuals within _The Turing Way_. 
To learn more about how to write and use alt text for your work, please use this {ref}`guidance<ch-accessibility-alttext>`.
```

- **Limit embedded links and provide alternatives for accessing information**: On many platforms, embedded links may not be accessible by screen readers, or may increase cognitive overload. If you are inserting a link into a message, limit the number of embedded links within a message. On Slack, avoid hyperlinking links within replies to messages when possible, as links posted within threads are not readable for screen readers.

> - **Limit use of emojis that disrupt narrative flow**: Do not replace words with emojis or use too many emojis to communicate important information. Screen readers usually read one emoji at a time using the alternative text and while sometimes the purpose may be clear (```:thumbsup:``` represents an icon of a thumbs up sign), at other times it may not be (```:partyblobcat``` represents a multicolored cat that is rotating in a circle, and is generally used in the context of a celebration or celebratory news). More broadly, strings of emojis can produce a clunky, repetitive user experience for people trying to understand the core message.  Remember that not all people are able to access the emoji reactions option within Slack, and normalise using written affirmations as well.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Limit use of emojis that disrupt narrative flow**: Do not replace words with emojis or use too many emojis to communicate important information. 
Screen readers usually read one emoji at a time using the alternative text and while sometimes the purpose may be clear (```:thumbsup:``` represents an icon of a thumbs up sign), at other times it may not be (```:partyblobcat``` represents a multicolored cat that is rotating in a circle, and is generally used in the context of a celebration or celebratory news). 
More broadly, strings of emojis can produce a clunky, repetitive user experience for people trying to understand the core message.
Remember that not all people are able to access the emoji reactions option within Slack, and normalise using written affirmations as well.
```

> - **Cross-post information to ensure openness**: People interact with _The Turing Way_ community on many different platforms. Not everyone in the *The Turing Way* community is in the Slack workspace, or on Github, in every community call, or on every social media channel. Where possible, we aim to normalise creating issues and discussions on the Github repository or post across social media channels in order to ensure the widest reach and participation possible across the community.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Cross-post information to ensure openness**: People interact with _The Turing Way_ community on many different platforms.
Not everyone in the *The Turing Way* community is in the Slack workspace, or on Github, in every community call, or on every social media channel.
Where possible, we aim to normalise creating issues and discussions on the Github repository or post across social media channels in order to ensure the widest reach and participation possible across the community.
```

> - **Be sensitive to bandwidth needs**: As a digital and remote-first project, we are committed to making sure that our resources, communication platforms, and community are accessible to the widest possible audience, despite any bandwidth needs or barriers. In order to make sure that our communication platforms are accessible in low-bandwidth environments for the community, we avoid posting data-intensive content like videos directly into the channels. Instead, we prioritise hosting the content on other platforms (such as YouTube) where viewers have the option to adjust the data-intensiveness of the streaming platform. We also frequently turn off video streaming in team meetings in order to adjust for participants or community members that find it difficult to tune in.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Be sensitive to bandwidth needs**: As a digital and remote-first project, we are committed to making sure that our resources, communication platforms, and community are accessible to the widest possible audience, despite any bandwidth needs or barriers.
In order to make sure that our communication platforms are accessible in low-bandwidth environments for the community, we avoid posting data-intensive content like videos directly into the channels.
Instead, we prioritise hosting the content on other platforms (such as YouTube) where viewers have the option to adjust the data-intensiveness of the streaming platform.
We also frequently turn off video streaming in team meetings in order to adjust for participants or community members that find it difficult to tune in.
```

(ch-accessibility-comms-platforms)=
# Access-centered support on Communication Platforms

> _The Turing Way_ uses a variety of platforms for communication (i.e. Slack, social media platforms like X/Twitter, Linkedin, Mastodon) and collaboration (i.e. Github, HackMD, Etherpad). 

Reviewer: I think we try to avoid Latin abbreviations for readability and compatibility with screen readers.

Author: Great catch @JimMadge, thank you!

Author: Tried to correct this change ages ago - but I think it didn't work properly - editing this phrasing to 'such as...'

> _The Turing Way_ uses a variety of platforms for communication (i.e. Slack, social media platforms like X/Twitter, Linkedin, Mastodon) and collaboration (i.e. Github, HackMD, Etherpad). 

Author: ```suggestion
_The Turing Way_ uses a variety of platforms for communication (for example: social media platforms like X/Twitter, Linkedin, Mastodon) and collaboration (for example: Github, HackMD, Etherpad). 
```

> _The Turing Way_ uses a variety of platforms for communication (i.e. Slack, social media platforms like X/Twitter, Linkedin, Mastodon) and collaboration (i.e. Github, HackMD, Etherpad). 

Author: ```suggestion
_The Turing Way_ uses a variety of platforms for communication (such as Slack, social media platforms like X/Twitter, Linkedin, Mastodon, and Bluesky) and collaboration (such as Github, HackMD, and Etherpad). 
```

> This chapter describes the access and inclusion-related support we provide on our communication platforms, as we as support we hope to provide in the future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This chapter describes the access and inclusion-related support we provide on our communication platforms, as well as support we hope to provide in the future.
```

> In general, we encourage an approach to communication platforms that is as accessible as possible, for as many people as possible. We encourage our community to practice kindness when you communicate with others, and be mindful of cultural, linguistic, disability, and individual differences that may affect how people communicate online. 

Author: ```suggestion
We encourage our community to practice kindness in communicating with others and to be aware of cultural, linguistic, disability and personal differences, including the potential digital divide (in terms of unequal access to, use or impact of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT)) that may affect the way people communicate online.
```

> In general, we encourage an approach to communication platforms that is as accessible as possible, for as many people as possible. We encourage our community to practice kindness when you communicate with others, and be mindful of cultural, linguistic, disability, and individual differences that may affect how people communicate online. 

Reviewer 3: We encourage our community to practice kindness in communicating with others and to be aware of cultural, linguistic, disability and personal differences, including the potential digital divide (in terms of unequal access to, use or impact of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT)) that may affect the way people communicate online.

Author: This is really great and so well worded, thank you @PatriLoto - have added it to the pad draft. It really encompasses a lot!

> _The Turing Way_ uses a variety of platforms for communication (for example, social media platforms like X/Twitter, Linkedin, Mastodon) and collaboration (for example, Github, HackMD, Etherpad).
> 
> This chapter describes the access and inclusion-related support we provide on our communication platforms, as well as support we hope to provide in the future.
> 
> We encourage our community to practice kindness in communicating with others and to be aware of cultural, linguistic, disability and personal differences, including the potential digital divide (in terms of unequal access to, use or impact of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT)) that may affect the way people communicate online.
> 
> On every platform our community uses to communicate or collaborate, we aim to enable access in a broader sense as defined by our Accessibility Policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_The Turing Way_ uses a variety of platforms for communication (for example, social media platforms like X/Twitter, Linkedin, Mastodon) and collaboration (for example, Github, HackMD, Etherpad).
This chapter describes the access and inclusion-related support we provide on our communication platforms, as well as support we hope to provide in the future.
We encourage our community to practice kindness in communicating with others and to be aware of cultural, linguistic, disability and personal differences, including the potential digital divide (in terms of unequal access to, use or impact of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT)) that may affect the way people communicate online.
On every platform our community uses to communicate or collaborate, we aim to enable access in a broader sense as defined by our Accessibility Policy.
```

## Access and inclusion-related support we provide on communication platforms

> We aim to provide the following support and normalise the following practices within our community by doing the following places:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We aim to provide the following support and normalise the following practices within our community:
```

> - **Adding alt text to images**: We use alt text or "alternative text" to describe images, diagrams, or other visuals within _The Turing Way_. To learn more about how to write and use alt text for your work, please use this {ref}`guidence<accessibility-alt-text>`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Adding alt text to images**: We use alt text or "alternative text" to describe images, diagrams, or other visuals within _The Turing Way_. To learn more about how to write and use alt text for your work, please use this {ref}`guidance<accessibility-alt-text>`. 
```

> - **Limit embedded links and provide alternatives for accessing information**: On many platforms, embedded links may not be accessible by screen readers, or may increase cognitive overload. If you are inserting a link into a message, limit the number of embedded links within a message. On Slac, avoid embedding links within replies to messages when possible, as links posted within threads are not readable for screen readers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Limit embedded links and provide alternatives for accessing information**: On many platforms, embedded links may not be accessible by screen readers, or may increase cognitive overload. If you are inserting a link into a message, limit the number of embedded links within a message. On Slack, avoid embedding links within replies to messages when possible, as links posted within threads are not readable for screen readers.
```

Reviewer: I'm not quite sure what an embedded link is. Is it different to a hyperlink? Are there non-embedded links?

Reviewer 2: I'd agree with Jim here- we need to specify the alternative way you _should_ share a link (spoiler: I don't know what this is)

Reviewer: @aleesteele can you think of a way to explain what embedded links means?

Author: Changed the wording slightly to hyperlinking @JimMadge 👍

> - **Limit use of emojis that disrupt narrative flow**: Do not replace words with emoljis or use too many emojis to communicate important information. Screen readers usually read one emoji at a time using the alternative text and while sometimes the purpose may be clear (```:thumbsup:``` represents an icon of a thumbs up sign), at other times it may not be (```:partyblobcat``` represents a multicolored cat that is rotating in a circle, and is generally used in the context of a celebration or celebratory news). More broadly, strings of emojis can produce a clunky, repetitive user experience for people trying to understand the core message.  Remember that not all people are able to access the emoji reactions option within Slack, and normalise using written affirmations as well.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Limit use of emojis that disrupt narrative flow**: Do not replace words with emojis or use too many emojis to communicate important information. Screen readers usually read one emoji at a time using the alternative text and while sometimes the purpose may be clear (```:thumbsup:``` represents an icon of a thumbs up sign), at other times it may not be (```:partyblobcat``` represents a multicolored cat that is rotating in a circle, and is generally used in the context of a celebration or celebratory news). More broadly, strings of emojis can produce a clunky, repetitive user experience for people trying to understand the core message.  Remember that not all people are able to access the emoji reactions option within Slack, and normalise using written affirmations as well.
```

Author: Fixing typo - thank you @harrietrs!

> - **Limit use of emojis that disrupt narrative flow**: Do not replace words with emoljis or use too many emojis to communicate important information. Screen readers usually read one emoji at a time using the alternative text and while sometimes the purpose may be clear (i.e. ```:thumbsup:``` represents an icon of a thumbs up sign), at other times it may not be (i.e. ```:partyblobcat``` represents a multicolored cat that is rotating in a circle, and is generally used in the context of a celebration or celebratory news). More broadly, strings of emojis can produce a clunky, repetitive user experience for people trying to understand the core message.  Remember that not all people are able to access the emoji reactions option within Slack, and normalise using written affirmations as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Limit use of emojis that disrupt narrative flow**: Do not replace words with emoljis or use too many emojis to communicate important information. Screen readers usually read one emoji at a time using the alternative text and while sometimes the purpose may be clear (```:thumbsup:``` represents an icon of a thumbs up sign), at other times it may not be (```:partyblobcat``` represents a multicolored cat that is rotating in a circle, and is generally used in the context of a celebration or celebratory news). More broadly, strings of emojis can produce a clunky, repetitive user experience for people trying to understand the core message.  Remember that not all people are able to access the emoji reactions option within Slack, and normalise using written affirmations as well.
```

Reviewer 2: Additionally- there's a spelling mistake here 'emoljis'

- **Cross-post information to ensure openness**: People interact with _The Turing Way_ community on many different platforms. Not everyone in the *The Turing Way* community is in the Slack workspace, or on Github, in every community call, or on every social media channel. Where possible, we aim to normalise creating issues and discussions on the Github repository or post across social media channels in order to ensure the widest reach and participation possible across the community.

> - **Be sensitive to bandwidth needs**: As a digital and remote-first project, we are committed to making sure that our resources, communication platforms, and community are accessible to the widest possible audience, despite any bandwidth needs or barriers. In order to make sure that our communication platforms are accessible in low-bandwidth environments for the community, we avoid posting data-intensive content like videos directly into the channels. Instead, we prioritise hosting the content on other platforms (i.e. YouTube) where viewers have the option to adjust the data-intensiveness of the streaming platform. We also frequently turn off video streaming in team meetings in order to adjust for participants or community members that find it difficult to tune in.

Reviewer 2: Generally this is a bit confusing to read because it changes from 'do this', 'avoid this' (e.g. 'Do not replace words'), to 'we avoid', 'we aim to' (e.g. 'we avoid posting data-intensive content'). 
I appreciate there may be a subtle difference to suggesting how others should behave and modelling that behaviour but for clarity it might be worth rephrasing to be consistent.

> - **Be descriptive and clear in communication**: Aside from these concreate recommendations that we adhere to within the community, more broadly we aim to prioritise clear communication within _The Turing Way_ in order to ensure that our messages are accessible and readible for the community.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Be descriptive and clear in communication**: Aside from these concrete recommendations that we adhere to within the community, more broadly we aim to prioritise clear communication within _The Turing Way_ in order to ensure that our messages are accessible and readible for the community.
```
I assume this was supposed to be concete? Unless you mean 'co-created'?

(ch-accessibility-comms-platforms)=
# Access-centered support on Communication Platforms

> _The Turing Way_ uses a variety of platforms for communication (for example, social media platforms like X/Twitter, Linkedin, Mastodon) and collaboration (for example, Github, HackMD, Etherpad).

Author: ```suggestion
_The Turing Way_ uses a variety of platforms for communication (for example, social media platforms like X/Twitter, Linkedin, Mastodon) and collaboration (for example, Github, HackMD, Etherpad, Miro, Excalibur).
```

Author: Adding comment here reviewing @RichardJActon's comments about visual tools! We can add more documentation about this in this documentation at another date!

This chapter describes the access and inclusion-related support we provide on our communication platforms, as well as support we hope to provide in the future.
We encourage our community to practice kindness in communicating with others and to be aware of cultural, linguistic, disability and personal differences, including the potential digital divide (in terms of unequal access to, use or impact of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT)) that may affect the way people communicate online.

> On every platform our community uses to communicate or collaborate, we aim to enable access in a broader sense as defined by our Accessibility Policy.

Author: ```suggestion
On every platform our community uses to communicate or collaborate, we aim to enable access in a broader sense as defined by our [Accessibility Policy](https://github.com/the-turing-way/the-turing-way/blob/main/ACCESSIBILITY.md).
```
